Yes. This is a strong product idea, but the winning shape is not “an LLM watches the screen and guesses.” It should be a combat decision engine with an AI explanation layer on top.

A plain subpage on your site will not be able to directly inspect a live DFK tab by itself, because browsers restrict cross-origin reads under the same-origin policy. In practice, the reliable pattern is a browser extension or userscript that runs on game.defikingdoms.com, reads the battle state/log in-page, and forwards structured events to your site or backend. Extension content scripts are specifically designed to read and modify page content when the user grants host permissions. 

DFK already gives you most of the static/reference layer you need. The official Community GraphQL API is available at api.defikingdoms.com/graphql; the docs show hero queries plus hero fields for current stats, HP/MP/Stamina, level, and primary/secondary stat growth, and equipment data is also available through the Community GraphQL API. For combat logic, the official class pages publish ability descriptions, ranges, mana cost/growth, DoD, and raw damage/effect formulas, but those pages also explicitly warn that the information is subject to change and that some higher tiers are not yet fully revised or balanced. 

The missing piece is the live turn stream. The published Void Hunts interface documents lifecycle events and getters such as HuntStarted, HuntCompleted, HuntResultSubmitted, getHunt, and getUserHuntIds, but I do not see a documented per-turn battle-log getter in that interface. That means your live companion should assume the turn feed comes from the running client session, not from the hunt contract alone. 

The architecture I would use is:

1. Capture layer Run a content script in the DFK hunt page. It should read:

visible battle log entries

current HP/MP/status panels

initiative order

active unit / legal buttons

target selection state


Prefer structured capture from DOM/network over screenshot vision. Vision is a fallback, not the primary path.


2. Normalization layer Convert raw page data into events like:

{
  "huntId": 761923,
  "turn": 12,
  "actor": "Davion Greenlaugh",
  "actorSlot": "P1",
  "ability": "Mighty Strike",
  "target": "Baby Boar 1",
  "damageType": "physical",
  "damage": 217,
  "manaDelta": -19,
  "effects": [],
  "rawText": "...",
  "capturedAt": 1730000000000
}


3. State engine Build a full turn state from those events:

hero stats and equipment

learned / imported skill trees

current HP/MP

buffs/debuffs and remaining duration

initiative queue

enemy templates

consumables remaining


Store both state_before and state_after for every action. Do not store only text logs.


4. Recommendation engine For the active hero, enumerate every legal action-target pair and score them. The core math should be deterministic, not LLM-generated.

A good first scoring model is:

score =
  0.30 * killProbability
+ 0.20 * damageEV
+ 0.20 * survivalDelta
+ 0.15 * debuffValue
+ 0.10 * initiativeControl
+ 0.05 * manaEfficiency

Then move to a 1-ply or 2-ply rollout:

expected outgoing damage

chance to kill or set up kill

chance to survive next enemy rotation

value of shred/stun/bleed/etc.

overkill waste

mana conservation

target priority



5. AI explanation layer Let the LLM explain the engine’s output, not invent it. Feed it a candidate table like:

action

target

EV damage

kill chance

proc chance

survival impact

rationale tags


Then have it produce:

“best move”

“why”

“second-best fallback”

“high-risk / high-reward option”



6. Learning layer Store battle logs for learning, but use them the right way:

estimate hidden enemy targeting tendencies

calibrate omitted/implicit proc behavior

learn rounding quirks and initiative sequencing

train a value model for “state → win probability / turns-to-win”

compare recommended action vs chosen action vs outcome


I would not start with end-to-end RL. Start with deterministic formulas plus log-based calibration.



For storage, I would keep something like:

runs
turn_snapshots
raw_log_entries
parsed_events
recommendations
chosen_actions
outcomes
enemy_catalog
skill_catalog_versions
formula_versions

That skill_catalog_versions table matters because the official class pages explicitly say their combat data is subject to change. Version every recommendation against the exact formula set you used. 

For your website UX, the cleanest setup is:

user opens /hunt-companion on your site

user installs your extension

extension detects an active DFK hunt tab

extension pairs with your site session

extension streams normalized battle state to your backend over WebSocket

your site shows live recommendations and stores the replay


That is much better than trying to make a normal webpage “peek into” another site.

The best MVP is narrower than the full vision:

support Mad Boar only

support one or two classes first, likely Knight/Warrior

ingest known enemy stat blocks

recommend the best next move for the currently active hero

store full turn-by-turn replay data

add explanation text only after the math engine is stable


One more important point: DFK’s developer docs say the assets are publicly available and encouraged for integration, but use must still comply with DFK’s Terms of Service. They also run a Kingdom Building Program for community builders and offer consultations. I would keep this product advisory rather than auto-play, and I would talk to DFK early if you plan to rely on undocumented client endpoints or deeper UI integration. 

My blunt take: this is very buildable, and it could be genuinely useful. The moat is not “AI.” The moat is:

clean live capture

accurate combat-state reconstruction

versioned formula catalogs

a recommendation engine that is measurably right


Share your stack and I’ll map this into a concrete MVP architecture with collector, DB schema, and recommender loop.